So, now, we're looking at the web packet that the Host A was holding before being able to compose it
as far as Layer 4,
but it couldn't put the Layer 3 IP header on there because it didn't know the destination IP address
yet. It's just received that from the DNS Server,
so it can carry on composing that packet and knows that the destination is 10.10.12.10,
and it sees that it's on a different IP subnet,
so it knows that the destination MAC address is its default gateway, which it already knows is at
4444.5555.6666.
It will then put that web traffic onto the physical wire.
So here's our HTTP Get Request, the source MAC is 1111.2222.3333.
The destination MAC is the default gateway 4444.5555.6666. Source IP is its own IP address,
10.10.10.10, and destination IP is the Web Server at 10.10.12.10. That will hit
Switch 1, which will send the packet to Router A, which it already has in its MAC address table.
The packet will come into Router A. It sees that the destination IP address is 10.10.12.10,
and in our example, Router A
does not have any interfaces in the 10.10.12.0/24 subnet.
So, in that case, it's going to need a route to get there. The route can be either statically configured by an administrator
or learned dynamically through a routing protocol, which also would be configured by the administrator.
We're going to cover how to configure static route and routing protocols in later lectures.
So for our example, let's say that the administrator has already configured a static route for
10.10.12.0/24,
with the next hop address of 10.10.11.2, which is on the next hop
router. Router A has an Ethernet interface in the 10.10.11.0 subnet.
It doesn't know of the MAC address for the next hop address of 10.10.11.2 yet, though.
So, it will hold the HTTP packet from Host A, and it will send an ARP request out that interface in the
10.10.11.0 subnet looking for 10.10.11.2.
So there goes the ARP request,
it's from 10.10.11.1, saying it's looking for 10.10.11.2,
"What's your MAC address?"
It comes from a source MAC of 5555.6666.7777, going to the Layer 2 broadcast address of
FFFF.FFFF.FFFF. The ARP request will hit Router B's interface at 10.10.11.2, and it will see that
the ARP request is for itself. It will send a unicast ARP reply back to Router 1. While it's doing
that, Router B will add an entry for Router A, mapping the IP address 10.10.11.1
to MAC address 5555.6666.7777 to its ARP cache. So the ARP reply goes back, it says "Hey, I'm
10.10.11.2, and here's my MAC address of 6666.7777.8888, going to the destination
MAC of 5555.6666.7777." Router A will get my information, and it can know forward the HTTP packet
it was holding to Router B. So, it's the original HTTP Get Requests from Host A. The source IP is always
the same, so it's still 10.10.10.10 on Host A, going to the destination IP of
10.10.12.10 on the Web Server. But the source and destination MAC addresses will get updated for this
hop, so the source MAC is 5555.6666.77777, the destination MAC is 6666.7777.8888. Router B will
receive the HTTP packet and see that the destination IP address is 10.10.12.10. Router B
has an interface into the subnet of 10.10.12.0/24, so it knows the destination should
be available out that port. But it doesn't know the MAC address of 10.10.12.10 yet, so it
will hold the HTTP packet and send an ARP request out that 10.10.12.1 interface. So, there
goes the ARP request. It's from 10.10.12.1 looking for 10.10.12.10,
asking for the MAC address. It comes from a source MAC of 7777.8888.9999, going to the Layer 2
broadcast of FFFF.FFFF.FFFF. The ARP request will be received by Switch 2. Switch 2 will add an
entry in its MAC address table mapping Router B's MAC address of 7777.8888.9999 to Port 1.
And it will then flood the ARP request broadcast traffic out all ports apart from the one it was received on,
so that will be sent out of Port 2. The ARP request will hit the Web Server's interface at 10.10.12.10.
The Web Server will process the ARP request and see it is for itself. The Web Server will then send
a unicast ARP reply back to Router B. And it will add an entry for Router B, mapping IP address of
10.10.12.1 to the MAC address of 77777.88888.9999 to it's ARP cache. That's its
default gateway, so it will use that whenever it needs to send traffic to another IP subnet. So the ARP
reply will go back, saying, "I'm 10.10.12.10.
Here's my MAC address of 2222.3333.4444 going to the destination MAC of 7777.8888.9999."
Switch 2 will get that and add an entry to its MAC address table, mapping the Web Server's
MAC address of 2222.3333.4444 to Port 2. And Switch 2 will then send the ARP reply out only Port 1,
which Router B is plugged into, which it already has in its MAC address table.
So, there goes the ARP reply unchanged from the Web Server. Router B
will get that, and add an entry for the Web Server, mapping IP address 10.10.12.10
to MAC address 2222.3333.4444 to its ARP cache. And then, Router B will send the HTTP
Request it was holding to the Web Server. So again, it's the original source IP on Host A,
10.10.10.10. The original destination IP in the Web Server of 10.10.12.10. The MAC
addresses will get updated with the source MAC of 7777.8888.9999 and the destination MAC
of 2222.3333.4444. Switch 2 will send that HTTP Request out only Port 2, which the Web Server is plugged
into, and which the switch already has in its MAC address table. And finally, the HTTP Get Request will
reach the Web Server. So, it comes in on the physical wire. The Web Server will look at the Layer 2 header
and see that the destination MAC address is 2222.3333.4444, which is itself, so it will carry on
processing it. It will look at the Layer 3 IP header and see the destination IP address is
10.10.12.10, which again is itself. It will carry on processing it. It will look at the Layer 4, Transport
header, see that it's TCP, Port 80. So, it knows it's web traffic. It will then carry on up through the Session,
the Presentation, and the Application Layer, and the web traffic has now reached the Web Server. Okay,
the ARP and MAC address tables are already built, so any subsequent packets in either direction will flow
without any need for ARP requests or switch flooding. So, let's say the second packet in the session goes
from Host A, so it will send the HTTP Get Request. It comes from a source MAC of 1111.2222.3333, going
to a destination MAC of its default gateway 4444.5555.6666. The source IP 10.10.10.10, destination
IP of 10.10.12.10. It already has the destination MAC address in its ARP cache, so it can
just immediately send the packet. That will get to Router A, which also already has everything in its ARP
cache, so the HTTP Get Request is still from source IP 10.10.10.10, going to the Web
Server at 10.10.12.10. The MAC addresses will be updated to be relevant for this hop
which was a source MAC of 5555.6666.7777, a destination MAC of 6666.7777.8888. That will
hit Router B, and again, it's got an interface in the subnet of 10.10.12.0, so it knows
what interface to send out of. Source IP remains unchanged, 10.10.10.10, destination IP is
still 10.10.12.10. Source MAC, it gets updated to 7777.8888.9999. The
destination MAC gets updated to 2222.3333.4444, and we've got traffic going end to end. Okay, so we
got there. We covered the complete life of a packet from end to end, and you now have a really good knowledge
of how IP networking works. Honestly, there's really not much more to it than that. What we're going to be
covering in the following lectures are the different features and functions that are available on our
routers and switches to support that and how to configure them.